---
title: Dungeons & Dragons - Session 6 - Redbrand Hideout
---

### Slave Pens + Captives
**Killed 2 Redbrands** to free three enslaved townsfolk, Mirna Dendrar and her
two teenage children, the family of Thel whose body was 1/2 eaten by the Nothic.
Tell the group of an emerald necklace left at their old place in Thundertree.
All they know of the hideout is the boss is there who is a wizard and he has
"tall, furry monsters with big ears" (bugbears) working for him.

### Armory
The group moves out of the slave pens through the north door of the crypt room
and enters an armory room. **Dildo and Wizard Sleeves grab light crossbows and
quivers of bolts**. The group, now at a dead-end, inspects the hallway and finds
a secret door opening into a storeroom/work area which is at the north end of
the crevasse/cave area where they entered the hideout.

### Crevasse Redux
Group walks on through the crevasse down to the hallway on the North West wall.
Upon reaching the end of they find a door to the North and a door to the South.
They listen at the North door and hear nothing so they open it. Upon entering
the room the group discovers they are in a **Wizard's Workshop**

### Wizard's Workshop
The group enters the room finding it empty of anyone but a rat which scurries
toward a door on the East side of the room. The Rogue, Dildo, decides to kill
the rat and it vanishes as it dies. They investigate the room and Wizard
Sleeves recognizes it as a lab set up to brew potions of invisibility. They find
some a tome written in Dwarvish telling of an adventurer named Urmon and the
history of the Lost Mind of Phandelver adn the Forge of Spells.

The group grabs three small bottles containing mercury, dragon bile, and
powdered nightshade each worth 25gp to an apothecary or alchemist. They then go
through the door on the East wall appearing to be in the Wizard's bedroom.

### Glasstaff's Quarters
Glasstaff is not present when the group appears in the room but they notice a
secret door that has been left slightly ajar. The group quickly scans the room
finding a letter from The Black Spider on the Wizard's desk. They also grab a
bunch of money from the chest at the foot of his bed as well as two magic
scrolls: *scroll of charm person* and *scroll of fireball* that Wizard Sleeves
shoves into her satchel.

### The Chase
The Adventurers then run through the secret door at the back of the bedroom
following Glasstaff's trail south through the Crevasse where they earlier
killed the Nothic guarding the area. They follow the trail back through the
secret door to the cellar area and find Glasstaff there splashing around in the
cistern for his getaway bag that Dildo accidentally found earlier.

A battle ensues which ends with Dildo cutting off Glasstaff's head and keeping
it in his backpack as a souvenier. Wizardsleeves takes Glasstaff's *Staff of
Defense*.

A group of Bugbears heard the commotion and followed the trail through the
crevasse. The group hears them approaching and gets ready for the encounter.


