---
title: Dungeons & Dragons - Session 3 - Cragmaw Hideout (continued)
layout: post
category: dnd
---

In the previous session the party found a shortcut to the Dungeon Boss area and
suffered a TPK.  The party could roll new characters or restart from a previous
point in the story before they started the encounter which killed them.
Instead of dying the characters could discover that they were actually knocked
unconcious and taken prisoner. When they awake they discover they have been
taken captive and are locked up with *Sildar Hallwinter*! Their weapons have
been taken from them and are in a pile on the other side of the room, guarded
by goblins. The players wake up after a 4-hour short-rest while the guards are
asleep. A key hangs on the wall near the sleeping guard.

  * Players just came out of a short-rest (4 hours)
    * They are prisoner and are being tormented but are left alone for a 4-hour
      period which is actually a long-rest for the wizard and a short-rest for
      the rest of the crew.
  * How can the players escape the lock-up?
    * I expect the Wizard to save them... again. The Mage Hand cantrip can be
      to grab the key near the sleeping guard and unlock their shackles.
    * The Halfling could slip out and use the lockpicks from his *thieves tools*
      to free the party. Has advantage.

## Party Log

The players came out of a short-rest and rolled a hit dice to regain HP. The
Wizard came back to full-strength and regained all spell slots.

Wizard Sleeves decided to use the Mage Hand cantrip to summon the key from the
wall and unlock the cell. The Dildo, the Rogue, then proceeded to sneak out of
the cell to grab the Adventureres weapons and equipment from across the room.
Upon equiping their armor Dildo snuck up on the sleeping Goblin guarding their
cell and attacked.

The adventurers free Sildar, who was locked up with them, and turned to fight
the other five Goblins in the lower area of the room. Some ranged attacks
took out the front guard while Gouranga the Cleric moved forward and invoked
a spell to intimidate the other Goblins. Upon hearing the thunderous threats
of Gouranga which shook the floor like an earthquake, the 3 Goblins in the back
ran to hide in the tunnel opening of the room. Gouranga took a hit from the
one remaining Goblin in the northern lower area of the room before the Goblin
was picked off with an arrow by Grundle the Fighter.

The adventurers were then safe to talk to Sildar and learn what he knows while
Grundle kept his bow ready and watched the 3 Goblins in the tunnel. Sildar told
the group he heard the Black Spider took Gundren Rockseeker and his map of Wave
Echo Cave to Cragmaw Castle but doesn't really know where that is or who this
Black Spider person is. Sildar tells the group he'll pay them 50gp to escort
him to Phandalin since that is the closest town. He also intends to investigate
what happened to the human wizard named Iarno Albrek who was sent there two
months ago but hasn't been heard from.

The group proceeds to clear the cave of goblins, including Klarg the Bugbear
without too much difficulty. They find some crates of supplies with the image
of a blue lion on them, the symbol of Lionshield Coster, a merchant in
Phandalin. The group decides to take the supplies back to Phandalin on the wagon.

At this point the PCs each earned 275 XP and set up camp for the night in front
of the cave to take a long-rest before setting out for Phandalin.

## Up Next!

Start next round off making sure everyone rolls hit dice to increase their
Maximum Hit Points and understands the abilities gained at Level 2. WizardSleeves
and Gouranga should copy new spells their spellbook.

Check if any member of the party has any ties in Phandalin.

